---
title: Insert title here
key: f657fa6de1364fcda13b149e26867f1e

---
## Introduction to SpeechRecognition Python Library

```yaml
type: "TitleSlide"
key: "c6e91866a3"
```

`@lower_third`

name: Daniel Bourke
title: Machine Learning Engineer/YouTube Creator


`@script`
To get started with spoken language recognition, let's check out the SpeechRecognition Python Library.


---
## Why the SpeechRecognition library?

```yaml
type: "FullSlide"
key: "9112daf281"
```

`@part1`
Many Python based speech recognition libraries exist {{1}}

- apiai {{2}}
- assemblyai {{3}}
- google-cloud-speech {{4}}
- wit.ai {{5}}
- SpeechRecognition {{6}}

**SpeechRecognition** {{7}}

1. Low barrier to entry {{8}}
2. Compatibility with many other speech recognition APIs {{9}}


`@script`
Plenty of Speech Recognition packages exist.

An internet search for speech recognition python packages will yield a fair few results.

There’s:
* Apiai
* Assemblyai
* Google-cloud-speech
* Wit.ai
* SpeechRecognition

Many offer similar services when it comes to speech recognition, some with more robust features outside the scope of this course but none you won’t be prepared to dive into once you’ve finished.

We’re going to be focusing on the SpeechRecogntion library. For it’s low barrier to entry and it’s compatibility with many available speech recognition APIs you may want to look into later on.


---
## SpeechRecognition Requirements

```yaml
type: "FullSlide"
key: "a56c6def16"
```

`@part1`
SpeechRecognition is compatible with Python 2 and 3  {{1}}

SpeechRecognition is available for free on PyPi {{2}}

How to install [LIBRARY NAME] from PyPi: {{3}}

```pip install [LIBRARY NAME]``` {{4}}

How to install SpeechRecognition from PyPi: {{5}}

```pip install SpeechRecognition``` {{6}}


`@script`
We can get started using the best of SpeechRecognition really quickly.

SpeechRecognition is compatible with many versions of Python 2 and 3. But for this course, we’ll only be using Python 3.

It’s available freely through the PyPi repository. You can imagine PyPi as a giant library full of smaller specialised Python libraries.

SpeechRecognition has already been installed on DataCamp’s servers but if you want to try it out on your computer, you can install SpeechRecognition the same way as you would many other Python libraries on PyPi via pip.

The usual command for installing something to your computer from PyPi is `pip install [LIBRARY NAME]` and SpeechRecognition is no different.

To install SpeechRecognition, you would type `pip install SpeechRecognition` into terminal on Mac or the Command Prompt program on Windows.


---
## Using the SpeechRecognition Recognizer() class

```yaml
type: "FullSlide"
key: "56aa45ddff"
```

`@part1`
Much of SpeechRecognition's capabilities are within the ``Recognizer()`` class {{1}}

Importing the SpeechRecognition library: {{2}}

```import speech_recognition as sr``` {{3}}

Creating a ``Recognizer()`` class instance: {{4}}

```recognizer = sr.Recognizer()``` {{5}}

> 
Hey Python, get the ``Recognizer()`` class from ``sr`` and save it to ``recognizer``. {{6}}


`@script`
Now we have `SpeechRecogntion` installed. 

Let's check out where all the beauty happens, the Recognizer() class.

If you’re not familiar with Python classes, you can think of the Recognizer() class as a book within the SpeechRecognition library where each of the chapters is a Python function we can use to do something useful.

So how do we use it?

To access the Recognizer() class, we’ll first import the SpeechRecognition library.

`import speech_recognition as sr`

Then we’ll create a Recognizer() instance by calling it from sr and assigning it to a variable.

`recognizer = sr.Recogniser()`

Think of this code as, Hey Python, get the Recogniser() class from sr and set it equal to recognizer.


---
## Using the `Recognizer()` class to recognise speech

```yaml
type: "FullSlide"
key: "44c8b9a515"
```

`@part1`
The ``Recognizer()`` class has functions built into it which work with many popular speech recognition APIs {{1}}

- ``recognize_bing()`` {{2}}
- ``recognize_google()`` {{3}}
- ``recognize_wit()`` {{4}}


`@script`
Now we’ve got a Recognizer() instance setup in our variable r, the next step is to use it to recognise some speech.

And remember how we chose SpeechRecognition for its flexibility?

Here’s what I mean.

SpeechRecognition has functions built-in to work with many of the popular speech recognition APIs available online.

`recognize_bing()`
`recognise_google()`
`recognise_wit()`

By calling one of these functions on `r` and passing it an audio file, SpeechRecognition will access the API and use it to try and decipher the speech within.

Let's put it all together with an example.


---
## SpeechRecognition Example

```yaml
type: "FullSlide"
key: "5043ce2216"
```

`@part1`
We'll focus on using the `recognise_google()` function {{1}}

How to recognize speech from an audio file with SpeechRecognition: {{2}}

```
import speech_recognition as sr

recognizer = sr.Recognizer()

recognizer.recognize_google(some_audio_file)

``` {{3}}

Output: {{4}}

```
>>> 'Learning speech recognition on DataCamp is awesome!'
``` {{5}}


`@script`
For this course, we’ll be using the `recognise_google()` function because of its built-in API-key with the SpeechRecognition library.

To recognise speech with SpeechRecognition:

First, we import the speech_recognition library as sr.

Then we initialise a Recognizer() class and save it to the variable r.

Finally, we call the in-built recognise_google() function on r and pass it an audio file.

Running the function returns the speech it detects in the audio file as text.


---
## Your turn!

```yaml
type: "FinalSlide"
key: "1802841da4"
```

`@script`
Now you've seen an example, it's time to try it out for yourself.

